docs(core): add azure and gcs powerpack plugins (#28668)
nrwl/nx: docs/external-generated/packages/powerpack-azure-cache/documents/overview.md

---
title: Overview of the Nx powerpack-azure-cache Plugin
description: The powerpack-azure-cache Nx plugin enables you to use Azure Storage to host your remote cache instead of Nx Cloud
---

> The `@nx/powerpack-azure-cache` plugin enables you to use [Azure Storage](https://aws.amazon.com/azure) instead of Nx Cloud to host your remote cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@nx/powerpack-azure-cache` plugin enables you to use [Azure Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs) instead of Nx Cloud to host your remote cache.
```

        ...

      - name: Azure login
        uses: azure/login@v2
        with:
          client-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CLIENT_ID }}
          tenant-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_TENANT_ID }}
          subscription-id: ${{ secrets.AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID }}
        ...

      - run: pnpm exec nx affected -t lint test build
```

You need to set the `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID` and `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` secrets as defined in the [Azure documentation](https://github.com/Azure/login#login-with-openid-connect-oidc-recommended).

Note: Any authentication method that [sets up the `DefaultAzureCredentials`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/javascript/sdk/credential-chains#use-defaultazurecredential-for-flexibility) will enable the plugin to work.

### 3. Configure the Nx Cache to Use Azure Storage

Finally, you need to configure your Nx cache in the `nx.json` file. The `container` that you specify needs to already exist - Nx doesn't create it for you.

```jsonc {% fileName="nx.json" %}
{
  "azure": {
    "container": "mycontainer",
    "accountName": "myaccount"
  }
}
```

| **Property** | **Description**               |
| ------------ | ----------------------------- |

> | **bucket**   | The name of the bucket to use |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **container**   | The name of the container to use |
| **accountName** | The name of blob storage account |
```

sorry, this might need formatting

{% callout type="warning" title="Potential Cache Poisoning" %}
Using your own Azure Storage account to host the remote cache opens you up to the possibility of [cache poisoning](/troubleshooting/unknown-local-cache). To avoid this, use [Nx Replay](/ci/features/remote-cache).
{% /callout %}

{% callout title="This plugin requires an active Nx Powerpack license" %}
In order to use `@nx/powerpack-azure-cache`, you need to have an active Powerpack license. If you don't have a license or it has expired, your cache will no longer be shared and each machine will use its local cache.
{% /callout %}

## Set Up @nx/powerpack-azure-cache

### 1. Install the Package

1. [Activate Powerpack](/nx-enterprise/activate-powerpack) if you haven't already
2. Install the package

```shell
nx add @nx/powerpack-azure-cache
```

### 2. Authenticate with Azure

There are several ways to [authenticate with Azure Storage](https://github.com/Azure/login#login-with-openid-connect-oidc-recommended), but the method recommended by Azure is to use OpenID Connect, like this:

```yaml {% fileName=".github/workflows/ci.yml" %}
name: CI
...
permissions:
  id-token: write
  ...

env:

>   NX_DB_CACHE: true

Reviewer: This can be removed as its no by default on Nx 20
